Sassy Weather - Learning Log - After refactor

20260320 - "Milestone: changed models from gemma3 to gpt-oss:20b for more dynamic feedback and utilising thought processes. Swapped voice engine to edge-tss and battled with a bug that used a baby voice when user input returned 'None'."

20260323 - "Tried to change LLM to be conversational, needed to make big changes to llm_brain.py and main.py. Dealt with lots of looping errors because of it. Learnt what 'continue' code does and why it was giving me a headache.

	Today's outstanding notes: 
	#1.Follow up context loops back to the original prompt when typing gibberish
	#2.Need to redefine prompts as AI took instructions too literally, i.e. reads both 24hour time and 12 hour time together.
	#3.Sometimes it titles 'roast' before doing the 'roast user about chosen city' prompt.


20260324 - Battled all afternoon at returning AI voice logic when user types in gibberish. It's a coding / skills issue on my behalf. Finally got it sorted with Gemini's help and clean refactoring of code, but still needs fine adjustment.

	Today's outstanding notes: 
	#1.Follow up context loops back to the original prompt when typing gibberish <-------------- mostly fixed, just returns a roast when following up with a legit question.
	#2.Need to redefine prompts as AI took instructions too literally, i.e. reads both 24hour time and 12 hour time together. <---- not done yet
	#3.Sometimes it titles 'roast' before doing the 'roast user about chosen city' prompt. <---- not done yet
	#4.Get voice working but need a mic first. <---- not done yet. Testing the G933 headset now.

git commit -m "WIP: changed audio engine to playsound, fixed filelock issues, battled looping logic and user gibberish inputs. Need to sort context bug for follow ups."


20260325 - Spent the entire learning time block on fixing the roast to do a proper return when a follow-up question is asked. It worked out at the end, and i fell victim to AI hallucination when i believed it when i asked results for 'Manila next Tuesday' over the current city, Sydney. This is because weather_api is currently only coded for today's results, and the LLM (gpt-oss) likely made up the weather based on assumptions. Doing checks on Accuweather, timeanddate and google weather showed it wasn't too far off either.

	Today's outstanding notes: 
	#1. Change weather_api to 5 day / 3 hour
	#2. Test mic / voice commands

git commit -m "Fixed city memory logic and doing roast returns for legitimate follow-up questions. Cleaned up llm_brain.py spaghetti."


20260326 - Today was spent changing the LLM logic to return forecast weather, 5 days maximum as per OpenWweather API limit. But the LLM hallucinates with 40 points of data to 	return and returns jank. I verified it with cross checking OW's website. 
	Tried prompt engineering, changing codes, nothing was fixing the hallucinations. Only thing i didn't try was for the LLM to return the maximum temp instead but that means 	it still dealing with a lot of data causing its confusion.

	No git commit today.


20260327 - Big day trying to solve logic and failures of future forecasts along with the complexities of adding different cities during secondary prompting. 
	Settled for using Openweather's max temp in their API 3 hour forecasts, which causes a 2-3°C variance between raw API snapshots and "Official" web reports. 
	Cross-verified with AccuWeather and determined the variance is a result of model smoothing vs. raw data points. Prioritized data depth (5-day forecast) over real-time synchronization for LLM personality grounding.

	Outstanding tasks:
	#1. Test mic / voice commands
	#2. Revisit other personalities as they've been neglected to focus on 'sassy'
	#3. "Tomorrow" follow up prompt currently a band aid

git commit -m "git commit -m "Milestone: Transitioned from single-day snapshots to 5-day forecast logic with multi-city context sync."


20260329 - Unscheduled working on sassy! Had it in my brain that since i'm focused on privacy, does this app have any issues with it? 
	It turns out user prompts is the most vulnerbale as that's where code can be input. Of course! I added a 'sanitizer' project to limit user input and ended up reworking a chunk of main.py.
	Another big feature solved was the accuracy of the data. Refactored the code to get_daily_maxes to scan for the daily high amidst the confusion of OW's 5day/3hr forecast API.
	Key Features Working:
		Context-aware city detection ("I'll be in Montreal on Wednesday")
		Proper date handling (tomorrow, specific days)
		12-hour time format for sunset display on print and adjusted prompt

	Outstanding tasks:
	# 1.Test mic / voice commands
	# 2.Revisit other personalities as they've been neglected to focus on 'sassy'
	# 3.Distill app down to an android version
	# 5.Github push?


20260330 - Optimised and hardened Sassy persona today adjusting  prompts just not for data accuracy, but to handle user typos (sanitized of course!). 
	Added precipation to the stats along with wind chill factor that changes between northern/souther hemispehere,
	by adding to the get_daily_maxes that was figured out yesterday. 

	Oustanding tasks:
	# 1.GitHub Push 
	# 2.Revisit other personalities as they've been neglected to focus on 'sassy'
	# 3.Local Web UI
	# 4.Mic/Voice Test
	# 5.The Android App
		
git commit --amend -m "Optimized Sassy persona for parsing additional weather data with roasts and location sanitizing and dealing with typos."


20260331 - Fixed user prompt logic "What's the weather next week?" for the LLM voice to return a custom roast, 
	as the OpenWeather API is limited to 5 days / 3 hours anyway.
	Created a github repo 'sassy-weather-ai'. I'm nervous about that.
	Created a webpage ui via streamlit to see Sassy's results and hopefully interact. A prototype for the evenual
	android version.

	Outstanding tasks:
	# 1.Local Web UI (animated?) for printed results and emulate phone screen
	# 2.Mic/Voice Test
	# 3.The Android App

git commit -m "Initial Github  commit: Sassy Weather Logic & Security Guardrails"


20260402 - Tried to add a ui for the results via webui, suggested to use Streamlit. 
	But Streamlit has its own language so unfortantely was was beyond my skill level, so I leaned 100% into 'Vibe Coding' with the AI to scaffold it.
	 It's been a nightmare: constant errors, UI and Logic desyncing, and the AI overwriting my fixes. But, managed to force a sync between Ollama brain and the frontend. 
	 Discrepancies are mostly dead. It works, but the 'vibe' cost was expensive in time and sanity.

	Outstanding tasks:
	# 1.Local Web UI (animated?) for printed results and emulate phone screen (mostly done)
	# 2 Wrong reporting on 'tomorrow' prompt, could be more issues
	# 3.Mic/Voice Test
	# 4.The Android App

git commit -m "Factored in webui for Sass's results via Streamlit. Mostly complete, some debugging to do."


20260407 - More tweaking with streamlit, its been painful to get it working. Doubly frustrating as its a skill issue for me and i have to
	lean on the AI for it. Unfortunately it breaks something else everytime it fixes something.

No git commit today.


20260408 - Sassy_UI via streamlit is mostly done, but the LLM personas got broken along the way. Added basic animations to it.
	Good news for today at least, we have an Sassy Weather Avatar! She is Sassy_Tabby the cat. I'll look at creating animations
	for her via comfyui to react to the weather, in sassy ways of course.

	Outstanding tasks:
	# 1.Local Web UI (animated?) for printed results and emulate phone screen (mostly done)
	# 2 Wrong reporting on 'tomorrow' prompt, could be more issues
	# 3.Mic/Voice Test
	# 4.The Android App

No git commit today

20260409 - Success! Finally got Streamlit to display the UI of the weather, personalities + voices working correctly! That took almost 5 days to get working right!
	Will git commit this for now as it's a good spot to fall back to in case everything gets FUBAR again.

No git commit today.

2026010 - Created some renders of the Sassy Avatar - A sassy tabby cat, and managed to animate it. Managed to get streamlit to dispplay the correct sassy_tabby render
	with the correct weather. Its beautiful!
	A lot of UI customisation also.	

git commit -m "Milestone - added renders of 'Sassy Tabby Cat' to correctly match the video theme to the reported weather"

20260415 - Added Whisper to streamlit and successfully added voice command. This is to prep for the eventual android / macos personal ports.

git commit -m "Phase 3: Whisper Integration & File Cleanup"
Extra commit today! Factored in security measures for text and prompt injections. -m "Security: implement input sanitization and prompt injection safeguards"


20260416 - Moved main.py to the archive as sassy_ui.py has become 'main'. Refactored llm_brain to make it 'R.A.G.' by moving the personas 
	into their own .txt docs in a personas/ folder.

git commit -m "feat: implement modular RAG-lite persona engine and update documentation"


20260420 - Tried to implement n8n for RAG retreival alternative (and to learn it) for today's class but it kept playing silly buggers with permissions and taking an hour so i postponed it for now.
	Pivoted on integrating cleaning up the ic audio instead with numpy + pydub. Tested and works fine.
	Renamed sassy_ui.py to main.py to keep in line like an actual development project.

	- Refactored video delivery to use Base64 encoding with HTML5 flags for Brave/Edge compatibility.

	- Integrated Phase 4 digital gain and noise gate sliders in sidebar.

	- Commented out main guard for Streamlit compatibility.

	- Resolved remote desync issue via git pull/merge.

	- Verified stable playback in Edge.

git commit -m "feat: phase 4 audio prep and browser video fix"


20260422 - Implemented flet to prep for the Android port - just basic settings for now and hooked to ollama. I still need to understand the code fully,
	i think everything is reliant on the 'onclick' function. THis is my first time with flet.

	Since there's a need for user input, need to establish the security and sanitsation protocols I made with sanitizer.py and inside main.py since that
	was refactored into a web UI.

		Outstanding tasks:
	# 1. Security / Sanitization

	### Objectives

	- Transition the UI from Streamlit to Flet to prepare for a native mobile (.apk) build.

	- Implement asynchronous threading to prevent the UI from freezing during local 26B model inference.

	### Key Concepts Mastered

	- Event-Driven Programming: Moving away from Streamlit's top-down execution to Flet's on_click event handlers.

	- Asyncio Threading: Using asyncio.to_thread to run the Ollama "Brain" in the background while keeping the UI responsive.

	- State Management: Using a local dictionary to provide the LLM with a "sticky note" of the previously mentioned city.

	### Technical Notes

	- Identified that Flet's Stack and Container controls are the keys to porting the "Liquid Layout" video background.

	- Successfully extracted city names from natural language queries using a local Gemma model.

	### Reflections

	The transition to Flet feels more like "real" app development. It's more complex than Streamlit, 
	but the control over the user experience (and the ability to eventually bundle it as a standalone app) 
	makes it the right move for an AI Engineering portfolio.

No git commit today.

20260423 - More work with flet, seems more frustrating than trying to work Streamlit! Slowly getting there, it at least talks to the LLM now.

No git commit today.


20260430 - Flet was a headache today, had trouble the label fields in the seperate TEMP and HUMIDITY boxes. Finally solved it
	but it over 3 hours of debugging!

Milestone but no git commit today.

20260505 - More battles with Flet, has been a nightmare trying to work with MP4 videos. A whole bunch of deprecations to deal with also.
	managed to get the video player to show now, at least. Worthy of git commit.

git commit -m "managed to integrate flet-video into UI whilst dealing with deprecations. Video still showing blank however."


20260506 - Finally managed to get videos in flet working! Needed to install VLC apparently.
	- Added VLC DLL injection for Windows & absolute path resolving.
	- Mapped weather conditions to specific mp4 assets (sun/rain/clouds).
	- Fixed async race conditions and UI scaling for mobile consistency.
	
	I'll need to redo the tabby videos so they have dips in between the loops.
	UI fixes needed as it was all scrambled from multiple tests.
	Note: if the temp and humidity icon and label dissapers again, the color just needs to be shifted to white or another bright color.

git commit -m "Videos in Flet are now live! It correctly plays the video theme according to the weather report."
	

20260507 - Realised the wind logic was broken in this sassy_mobile.py version after putting in 6 hours of work. At least the followup
	logic now works as well as the voiced output.
	Also needs fixes:
	# 23. fix broken wind logic
	# 24. fix video not updating correctly on followup
	# 25. add mic input 
	What a fun day! 😭

No git commit today.


20260508 - Big victory today with getting the wind and sunset logic working in Flet!
	Apparently the video updating on followup not working is a limitation on flet, so we're stuck with the single 
	video for now.

	Mic input last thing left outstanding (unless we want to revet putting the video behind the weather data like in streamlit).

	git commit -m "Wind and Sunset logic finally translater to flet and working correctly!"


20260509 - Having mic input issues with flet - this was the last major feature, but i think i will call it here - 
	'disable' the mic function as weather + AI LLM logic works 100%, and keep the icon disabled as a visual remoinder. 
	The only other outstanding is the tabby cat videos not udating on follow-up prompts, but apparently it's a flet limitation.

	Will call this a beta or pre-beta for now. Only making the desktop versions (exe / dmg) then the android app left to go.

	chore: version 0.9-beta "Picture Lock"

	- Established core Sassy Weather logic (RAG-enabled city persistence).

	- Integrated Qwen 2.5 32B via Ollama for personality-driven responses.

	- Implemented VLC-based dynamic video pipeline (Sun/Rain/Wind/Cold).

	- Mobile UI optimized for Pixel 7 (Flet-based).

	- Documented v1.0 Roadmap (Standalone Desktop & Android targets).

	- Flagged experimental features (Voice/Mic) for v1.1.

git commit -m "The Desktop script is stable. Ready for Desktop and Android mastering pass."